# lebronlanguage	
There have been continual advancements in linguistic analysis tools available to researchers interested in examining underlying patterns, themes, styles, and tendencies. An area that is less commonly mined for information through the analyzation of language is the world of sports. A typical case of language analysis in sports focuses on sports broadcasters and the differences between how men and women are covered in their respective sport. There has been much less attention paid to the language used by the actual athletes even though there has been an infrastructure in place for decades perfectly suited for such analyses – the press conference. Athletes compete in many games and series throughout a season, and they are often questioned about their performance, the team’s performance, “off-court” issues, and many other topics relevant to the athlete in a post-game press conference. Little, if any, research has analyzed the language used in post-game press conferences of athletes, which means that there is a vast landscape of opportunity to begin that initiative. Winning and losing are qualitatively different outcomes that should yield qualitatively different language, but there is not readily available foundational work that demarcates these differences. Performance metrics are typically analyzed to determine any insights between winners and losers (Cene, 2018). Examining these differences should provide robust support for current theories of psycholinguistics as we map them to the various states of an athlete over the course of their career. 
	LeBron James is arguably the greatest basketball player of all-time, and is still amid a long, storied career in the National Basketball Association since 2003. During that career, he has made it to the Conference Finals (i.e., semifinals) 11 times and to the NBA Finals 10 times. He has won four championships and lost six times in the Finals. He is a wonderful case study to determine individual differences in the language used between winners and losers, and he also has an opponent in each game and series to compare that language to.  I will be getting post-game press conference transcripts from http://www.asapsports.com/. This is not an exhaustive list of every post-game press conference for those series. Also, I will not be examining the questions asked in this exploratory study, but future research should incorporate the influence of the questions being asked. The information gleaned from the post-game press conferences could provide an index of a team’s social cohesion, a player’s attention, or their general sentiment as it ebbs and flows throughout the season (Tausczik & Pennebaker, 2010). The feedback provided has the opportunity to improve outcomes if the important elements are able to be extracted.


References
Çene, E. (2018). What is the difference between a winning and a losing team: insights from Euroleague basketball. International Journal of Performance Analysis in Sport, 18(1), 55-68.
Tausczik, Y. R., & Pennebaker, J. W. (2010). The psychological meaning of words: LIWC and computerized text analysis methods. Journal of language and social psychology, 29(1), 24-54.


